
Poverty affects approximately 1.2 million preschool aged children in the United States. This number is increasing every year, and since 2019 he has increased by 2% <span class="citation" data-cites="shrider">[<a href="#ref-shrider" role="doc-biblioref">(Shrider et al., 2019)</a>]</span>. Long exposure to poverty at a young age disrupts the body's stress response system, which can impede healthy cognitive development and cause the accumulation of toxic stress that disrupts biological processes. Individuals living in poverty have higher rates of chronic disease, higher mortality and shorter life expectancy, which is higher for those living in poverty than for those living above the poverty line <span class="citation" data-cites="cdc">[<a href="#ref-cdc" role="doc-biblioref">(CDC, 2020)</a>]</span>. In the United States, the poor account for more than half of healthcare costs, estimated at $734 billion<span class="citation" data-cites="cdc">[<a href="#ref-cdc" role="doc-biblioref">(CDC, 2020)</a>]</span>. Studies that elucidate the mechanisms by which early exposure to poverty affects later health outcomes can help offset the high morbidity and mortality costs associated with early exposure to poverty <span class="citation" data-cites="boyce">[<a href="#ref-boyce" role="doc-biblioref">(Boyce & Hertzman, 2018)</a>]</span>. To this end, this study focuses on whether early exposure to chronic poverty is associated with adolescent health outcomes, and explores potential mechanisms by which poverty affects later health outcomes.</p>

<p>Children exposed to poverty are more to likely develop chronic health problems throughout the lifespan than those not exposed. This is likely due to the response to stress that develops over time. While exposure to early poverty may lead to poor childhood outcomes, prior research has suggested that poor childhood health can lead to adverse childhood experiences. <span class="citation" data-cites="kerker">[<a href="#ref-kerker" role="doc-biblioref">Kerker et al. (2015)</a>]</span> examined the relationships between adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) and mental health, chronic medical conditions and social development found that experiencing stressors before age 5 was associated with a greater likelihood of mental health and chronic medical problems. Additionally, the effects of early stress exposure may occur almost immediately and even the very youngest children are not immune.This project proposes a tool to assess health risk in children exposed to poverty. However, there is no existing tool to identify individual risk based on early exposure to poverty. This project utilizes a nationally representative sample of children in the child welfare system to highlight the challenges facing even very young children who remain in their homes and shows that early adverse childhood experiences may lead to early childhood mental health, chronic medical and social development problems. The project seeks to address behavioral and developmental concerns that are essential to children’s health. The goal of this project is to highlight potential targets for prevention efforts for children who were exposed to early poverty.</p>
  <strong>Hypothesis 1: </strong>
  <p>Children exposed to poverty in wave 1 will be more likely to exhibit lower internalizing and externalizing behavior scores at wave 2.</p>
  <strong>Hypothesis 2: </strong>
  <p>Children with lower externalizing and internalizing scores at wave 2 will be more likely to exhibit chronic health conditions at wave 3.</p>

