# Methods 
Data were obtained from three waves of the second cohort of the National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being (NSCAW II). NSCAW II used a two-stage stratified sampling design, which first selected nine sampling strata consisting of the eight states with the largest child welfare caseloads and the remainder of the United States. NSCAW II study sampled cases from Child Protective Services investigations of families that were closed between February 2008 and April 2009 nationwide. Data collection includes three waves: 4 months, 18 months and 36 months after the close of an investigation. Response rates for waves 2 and 3 ranged from 84 % to 94 %. Exclusion criteria were children who were 1) living in formal or informal kin care, group home/resident program, or unknown settings; and 2)children who reported moderate or high risk for neurodevelopmental impairment.

<h3 id="participants">Particpants</h3>
Participants included 3,019 children aged 0-5 at baseline (mean age = , SD= ). The sample was not nationally representative: 52% were white, 37% were black, 7% were Native American, and 3% were unknown ethnicity. Sample demographics can be found in table <a href="#tbl:threshold">1</a>
<h3 id="measures">Measures</h3>
  <h4>Poverty</h4>
  <p> Family income and household size were used to compute the poverty level. Poverty is a dichotomous variable with families either being at or below the poverty line or above the poverty line. </p>
   <h4 id="internalizing">Child Internalizing and Externalizing Scores</h4
     <p> Children's internalizing and externalizing behaviors were recorded as continuous dependent variables at wave 2. A checklist of symptoms of anxiety and depression, such as excessive crying, over-dependence, and nervous gestures action and unnecessary panic. Questions for assessing behavior externalizing a checklist for assessing child behavior symptoms of behavioral or anger problems, including rebellion, destruction of property, harm to self or others. Responses use a 3-point Likert-type scale ranging from not
true (0), somewhat or sometimes true (1), and very or often true (2). The continuous T-scores (range 0–100) were utilized, with higher scores indicating a stronger likelihood of having an internalizing or externalizing disorder. In this sample, internal consistency of the Internalizing subscale of the Child Behavior Checklist was good, averaging .87 for children 18 months to 5 years old and .90 for children 6 years and older.</p>
   <h4 id="outcomes">Chronic Health Outcomes</h4>
  <p>We assessed if the child reported chronic medical conditions at wave 3: asthma, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, asthma, autism, depression and anxiety, and weight problems. Children were considered to have a chronic medical condition if they reported a diagnosis.</p>
 <h4 id="covariates">Covariates</h4>
  <p>Covariates used in the analysis were child gender and child ethnicity. Child gender is a dichotomous (male or
female). Child ethnicity included: Native Indian/Alaskan, Black, and White.</p>
<h3 id="analyses">Data Analyses</h3>
  <p>Analyses for the current study were run in R (R version 4.2.1). Multiple
imputation (MI) was employed in the current study to address missing data. Twenty fully imputed databases were created using  the <code>mice</code> (multiple imputation by chained equations) package. Analyses were performed separately in each imputed dataset, and the final point estimates reported are a pooled average of the results. </p>
  <p>To assess hypothesis 1, we ran 2 multiple regression models to examine the relationship between early poverty exposure in childhood and internalizing and externaling scores and wave 2.</p>
  <p> To assess the hypothesis 2, we ran 5 logistic regression models to examine the association between internalzing and externalzing scores and each child health outcome (ADHD, ASD, asthma, weight, and anxiety/depression symptoms). The independent variables for each model were externalizing and internalizing scores, and covariates(child biological sex and child ethnicity). </p>
<p>Finally, we examined and compared model performances using a ridge penalty regularization (glmnet) and bagged trees (ranger) approach with cross validation. The bagged trees approach randomly selects from the pooled imputed datasets and makes aggregate predictions for 500 different trees. Ridge penalty regularization adds penalty terms to the loss function to avoid large coefficients, and we reduce model variance by including a penalty term in exchange for adding bias. The cutoff probability for predictions is: probability > 0.5. </p>
<p>The logistic model performances were assessed based on measures of: true negative rate, true positive rate, accuracy, and precision. The multiple regression model performances were assesed based on measures of: Root of the Mean of the Square of Errors (RMSE), Mean of Absolute value of Errors (MAE), and R-squared. Model performance comparisons are outlined in (tables <a href="#tbl:Logistic">4</a>, <a href="#tbl:logisticridge">5</a>,<a href="#tbl:Bagged">6</a>).</p>
  <p> All markdown code scripts used can be found <a href="https://github.com/rebeccagordon/edld640/tree/main/scripts">here</a>. Data can be found <a href="https://github.com/rebeccagordon/edld640/tree/main/data">here</a>. </p>
