<p> The findings for hypothesis 1 that poverty and negative interalizing scores are consistent with prior research. However, the results that poverty was positively associated with externalizing scores was surprising. The findings for hypothesis 1 were consistent with prior research that links internalizing and externalizing bahviors with poverty <span class="citation" data-cites="slopen">[<a href="#ref-slopen" role="doc-biblioref">Slopen et al. (2010)</a>]</span>. Finidings for hypothesis 2 were consistent with prior research examining bahvioral health and physical health in the same sample. <span class="citation" data-cites="rienks">[<a href="#ref-rienks" role="doc-biblioref">Rienks et al. (2017)</a>]</span> found that after infancy, internalizing and externalizing scores were associated with complex health problems. Results from these models may be useful in identifying key predictors of chronic health problems and potential areas for improvement, such as behavioral interventions.</p>
<h3 id="limitations">Limitations</h3>
<p>These results should be viewed in the context of study limitations. First, most health indicators were based on caregiver reports from younger age groups, which may over-report or under-report children's actual health concerns. Caregivers' own mental and physical health can also influence their perceptions of their child's health and behavior. Second, our study was limited to data collected by NSCAW and thus included a limited set of measures of health. Some of them did not show the desired reliability in this population (especially measures of children's temperament). Third, this study is cross-sectional and based on only one wave of data. </p>
