## References {.page_break_before}

<!-- Explicitly insert bibliography here -->
<div id="refs"></div>

<h2 class="page_break_before" id="references">References</h2>
<!-- Explicitly insert bibliography here -->
<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent" role="doc-bibliography">

<div id="ref-boyce" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Boyce, W., & Hertzman, C. (2018). Early childhood health and the life course: The state of the science and proposed research priorities: A background paper for the MCH Life Course Research Network. <i>Handbook of life course health development,</i> 61-93.
</div>

<div id="ref-casanueva" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Casanueva, C., Dolan, M., Smith, K., Ringeisen, H., & Dowd, K. (2012). Indicators of well-being among children in the United States child welfare system.<i>Child Indicators Research, </i> 5, 547-565.
</div>

<div id="ref-cdc" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2019). Adverse childhood experiences (ACEs): preventing early trauma to improve adult health.<i>Vital Signs, </i> (November).
</div>

<div id="ref-dowd" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Dowd, K.; Dolan, M.; Wallin, J., et al. (2011). National Survey of Child and Adolescent Well-Being II: Combined Waves 1–2 Data File User's Manual Restricted Release Version. <i>Ithaca, NY: Cornell University, National Data Archive on Child Abuse and Neglect;</i> 
</div> 

<div id="ref-kerker" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Kerker, B. D., Zhang, J., Nadeem, E., Stein, R. E., Hurlburt, M. S., Heneghan, A., ... & Horwitz, S. M. (2015). Adverse childhood experiences and mental health, chronic medical conditions, and development in young children. <i>Academic pediatrics, 15(5), </i> 510-517.
</div>
  
<div id="ref-rienks" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Rienks, S., Phillips, J., McCrae, J., Bender, K., & Brown, S. (2017). Complex health concerns among child welfare populations and the benefit of pediatric medical homes. <i>Child Abuse & Neglect, 65, </i> 212-225.
</div>
  
<div id="ref-shrider" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Shrider, E. A., Kollar, M., Chen, F., & Semega, J. (2021). Income and poverty in the United States: 2020. <i>US Census Bureau, Current Population Reports, </i> (P60-273).
</div>

<div id="ref-slopen" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Slopen, N., Fitzmaurice, G., Williams, D. R., & Gilman, S. E. (2010). Poverty, food insecurity, and the behavior for childhood internalizing and externalizing disorders. <i>Journal of the American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry, 49</i>(5), 444-452.
</div>

<div id="ref-stambaugh" class="csl-entry" role="doc-biblioentry">
Stambaugh, L. F., Ringeisen, H., Casanueva, C. C., Tueller, S., Smith, K. E., & Dolan, M. (2013). Adverse childhood experiences in NSCAW. Washington, DC: Office of Planning, Research and Evaluation, Administration for Children and Families <i>Research and Evaluation, Administration for Children and Families, US Department of Health and Human Services, Report, </i> 26.
</div>
</div>
